We see that also, today, I must tell you
about the part that is politics.
In politics also these people have
developed two types of theories:
one is left-sided, one right-sided.
The left-sided theories are democratic,
where you can indulge into anything
you like.
It’s the individual that is important.
The individual indulges into everything
and you should not stop him from doing
whatever he likes, he’s an individual:
so he has a right to cut his nose, he has
a right to cut his eyes,
to do what he likes.
An individual is allowed to do what
he likes to do,
and then what happens [is] that we find
this democracy becomes a demonocracy:
everybody is a demon. Everybody is busy
cutting throats,
cutting all the basis and the roots of life
because everybody is Brahma, becomes
a great personality,
because the individual is so great and
the collective is lost, completely lost.
But on the other side, where it is more
discipline,
more aggressiveness, more controls and
everything [with] the Right Side,
which we can call as communism, where
people are controlled all the time.
Now why? Because for the collective
the individual must sacrifice.
In that case, the individuals become weak
and if the individuals are weak,
then the collective cannot be strong:
it cannot be strong.
The individuals have to be strong.
For example, you will see
that the people who come from communist
countries,
they drink more than people who can
drink here.
Or those who come, say from Islamic
countries, where they don’t touch anything,
can drink more than even sardarjees.
So you can imagine what is the situation
of human beings is
that, out of fear if you try to control
him, he goes to the Right Side.
But he is in no way perfected, he’s not
transformed,
he doesn’t accept the situation, he doesn’t
become that,
he doesn’t have that power to control
himself.
He doesn’t get over his sinning aptitudes.
He’s still there.
As soon as he gets a chance he falls
into it. So that fails.
So the individuals are weak in that case.
And where there is complete abandonment,
do what you like,
live the way you like, indulgences, all
kinds of things, so you find [decadence].
I mean, everyday you see and you say,
“Oh God, this is a decadent society,
this is happening!”
Decadence is because an individual
[to] whom you have given all these powers,
has no power to bear them.
An individual cannot bear money. He
cannot bear power of any kind.
He cannot bear love. He cannot bear
kindness.
He cannot understand peace because he’s
still an individual.
But when an individual becomes
the collective -
this is the ascent through the central
path -
when he becomes the collective, in his
strength he strengthens the collective.
And also the collective looks after,
protects, and guides the individual.
This is what Sahaj Yoga is.
So the politics of Sahaj Yoga is that you
have to become the collective personality.
And there where we feel that still we are
something great,
we are different, we are Indians or we are
from England or from France,
still if you are identified then you are
not collective.
In collective sense we are all one, part
and parcel of one being.
Then you are really acting as collective
being
and you are one with the Divine. Where
the Sun is looking after you,
the Moon is looking after you, the winds
are looking after you;
all the Mother Earth and all these
elements are working.
Ether, everything is working for you and
you are so well-protected
and blessed by the special quality to enjoy
the joy.
Then you really become sensitive to that
joy,
when you are one with the whole.
Like if supposing this finger or this
finger is not one with the whole,
is numbed out… as it happens in leprosy,
what happens
that this finger becomes numbed out.
Even if a rat eats it off we don’t know
because there is no connection, no nerves
acting, it’s insensitive.
In the same way if you are not collective
and not bothered about collective you are
going to be dropped out.
You are not going to be there to enjoy
the beauties of your own glory and that
of the collective.
So one has to understand that we have to be
strong ourselves,
we have to ascend and we have to be
collective.
It’s very easy to find out faults with
others.
Very easy to find faults with the leaders.
Very easy to find faults also with Sahaj
Yoga, sometimes with me.
Better find faults with yourself. The rest
I’ll look after.
First you just find faults with yourself
and try to understand others
and love others and enjoy the company
of others.
This, once you decide that we have
to enjoy,
I tell you, it’s so spontaneous.
Just this decision, this faith, within you
that, “I’m going to enjoy now my Spirit.
I’m going to enjoy the collective within
me,” that’s the Spirit.
Just this decision itself will give you
the power to enjoy.
But the decision should be firm,
no hypocrisy,
no playing games, no ego, no conditioning,
nothing,
just pure desire within us that we have
to be the Spirit.
And the Spirit which is the collective
being within us.
I hope today on this day of resurrection,
we have to be thankful to Christ very much
for showing us the way
and also we have to be very much concerned
and alerted about ourselves:
Where are we? Where do we stand?
What are we up to? What are we doing?
What is our responsibility? What is
expected of us?
Why all these blessings are given to us?
There’s no sacrifice in Sahaj Yoga,
no sacrifice.
Nobody wants you anything to commit
or to do
or membership or anything like that.
I think it’s my commitment. As I said,
that God has the commitment
but you also have one commitment that
your desire should be pure.
That’s the only thing, that, “Let my desire
be pure!
No impurities of any kind, should work it
out.”
As Christ had His desire, so pure, and
that’s what He achieved.
I am sure you can all achieve a lot in your
life.
Christ died at a very, very young age, very
young age.
He was very young, I must say. But how
much He has done for humanity.
Nobody could have achieved that much
in that small age as He has done it.
It’s remarkable! It’s really remarkable!
That’s what I expect you to follow, His
footsteps in doing remarkable things.
And let me see all of you, every one of you
have to do something great.
And today is the day of certain promises.
May God bless you for that.
And I thank you very much for this birthday
of mine.